# AP_Scores
This is the code that I used to both clean and prep the data, which is located in AP_scores_research file, and then test on the models, which is located in the ML_Code file. Also on the ML_Code file is the SHAP analysis. All of the code was done in Python. Furthermore, the Algo_Data_Version_Three_Exnees.csv file is the converted and prepped data that was ran through AP_scores_research. The District_Based_Data_Converted was the original raw data that was passed to the AP_Scores_Research file.

The title of the paper is "Analyzing High School (9-12th Grade) AP Scores Using Machine Learning"
This is the abstract of the paper:

Advanced Placement (AP) exams are tests students can take to earn college credit while still in high school. A multitude of factors influence student pass rates regarding these exams. This study analyzes the influence of socioeconomic status, race, and English language abilities – among other factors – on AP exam scores by implementing machine learning technology. This study used five machine learning models, namely, Linear Regression, Support Vector Machine (SVM), Random Forest, Adaptive Boosting (AdaBoost), and XG Boost, to predict AP exam scores based on the aforementioned factors. This study then used SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) to analyze the models and decipher what factors the machine learning models value most when predicting AP exam scores. This study concluded that being economically disadvantaged or a non-native English language speaker (Bil/ESL) negatively impacted AP exam scores; all five models valued these two factors highest when making predictions on student AP exam performance. These findings corroborate similar studies, like Clark et al. (2018), that suggest negative socioeconomic factors have a strong negative influence on exam scores. Further research should be conducted to analyze whether providing economically disadvantaged and/or Bil/ESL students with additional resources and attention positively influences their AP exam scores. Through these findings, therefore, school administrations might be able to take preemptive action to improve AP exam scores amongst economically disadvantaged and non-native English speaking students.
